---
title: Insert title here
key: 2bcc6c66519d4c6f17e882a31a67cd86

---
## Loops in Tensorflow

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "812d9c7f15"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Allan Brooks
title: CDK Global


`@script`
Good morning everyone, in this lesson we will learn about loops in tensorflow. Before we begin lets talk about loops. In programming loops repeats a command for a number of times. It comes in handy when manipulating data in lists and arrays. There are two types of loops and they are the for and while. The next slide shows what a for loop looks like.


---
## Basic Structure of a For Loop

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "8ab4f140a7"
```

`@part1`
for (val in sequence)
{

statement

}


`@script`
The for loop has three components. The val is the initial value that before the for loop begins. The sequence determines the number of times the statement will occur. Once the val reaches a value that is beyond the sequence the statement will not occur. The next slide an example of a for loop.


---
## Example of a For Loop

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "1aab9cae62"
```

`@part1`
i <- 0
for (i in 1:10) {
  
    	i = i + 1
   }
   print(i)


`@script`
Here is an example of a for loop. The initial value is 0 and the sequence is the range from 1 to 10. The statement will be whatever value is plus 1. The end result will iterate from 0 to 10.


---
## For loop with Tensorflow

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "bc107f7482"
```

`@part1`
var1 = tf$Variable(0, name="var_1")

add1 = tf$add(var_1, tf.constant(1))

assign1 = tf.assign(var_1, add_op)


#Now start the session in a for loop

sess = tf$Session() 

sess$run(tf$global_variables_initializer())


`@script`
In this slide we have an example with a for loop with tensorflow. The variable var1 starts off with 0. The variable add increases the var1 by 1. The variable assign1 is what binds the two variables together. After that you iniitate the session.


---
## The code

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "609e972633"
```

`@part1`
with(tf$Session() %as% sess, {
  
  sess$run(tf$global_variables_initializer())
 
 for (assign1 in 1:10)
 
 print(assign1)

})


`@script`
Once the code is ran the code will continue to run for about 10 times.


---
## While Loop

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "2e20b66c8c"
```

`@part1`
x <- 1

   while(x < 5) {

x <- x+1; 

print(x);

}


`@script`
Unlike the for loop the while loop repeats a command when certain conditions are met. In this example the while loop will continue until x becomes 5. While loops come in handy when you are analyzing data in  lists and arrays that meet certain criteria such as only dealing with values that are only even numbers.


---
## While Loop with Tensorflow

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9fd4f39b95"
```

`@part1`
with(tf$Session() %as% sess, {
  
  sess$run(tf$global_variables_initializer())
 
 while(i < 5)
 
 i = i + 1;
 
 print(i)

})


`@script`
Using the same variables from the previous slides this while loop will print i becomes 5.


---
## Advantages of using loops

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "6e31048807"
```

`@part1`
- Requires less time than done manually
- Good for automating processes
- Manipulating data in a list/sequence


`@script`



---
## Let's practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "9de0b20d6c"
```

`@script`
Now that we are at the end of the lesson. Lets go over some practice problems incorporating these concepts using tensorflow. In the next chapter we will go over estimators in Tensorflow.

